---
title: Changelog
layout: default
---

Version 0.5.1:

* Updated to `posterous-sbt` plugin version 0.1.5.
* Removed CHANGELOG, because it can now be generated by `posterous-sbt`.
* Added `grizzled.generator`, which can be used to create Python-style
  generators. (It borrows shamelessly from
  [Rich Dougherty's Stack Overflow post][].)
* Added `listRecursively()` generator function to `grizzled.file.GrizzledFile`.
  Via implicits, `GrizzledFile` can be used to extend `java.io.File`.
* The `grizzled.readline.Readline` trait now contains a `cleanup` method,
  and the `grizzled.cmd.CommandInterpreter` class now calls it on exit.
  This change ensures that the terminal isn't left in a weird state.

[Rich Dougherty's Stack Overflow post]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2201882/implementing-yield-yield-return-using-scala-continuations/2215182#2215182

Version 0.5:

* Updated to Scala 2.8.0.RC1.
* Replaced uses of now-deprecated `Math` functions with corresponding functions
  from `scala.math`.
* Enhanced `grizzled.config.Configuration`:
  - A `forMatchingSections()` method allows simple looping over sections that
    match a regular expression.
  - A `matchingSections()` methods returns a sequence of sections that match
    a regular expression.
  - The `options()` method now returns an empty map if the section doesn't
    exist, instead of throwing an exception.
  - A new `setOption()` method overwrites an option value, if it exists already,
    instead of throwing a `DuplicateOptionException`, as `addOption()` does.
  - `ConfigurationReader` is deprecated, and the logic to read a configuration
    file has been moved into the `Configuration` class, to permit easier
    subclassing.
  - Now supports a "safe load" mode, where exceptions aren't thrown.
  - Added unit tests for the `Configuration` class.
  - Added ability to retrieve converted integer and boolean option values.
  - The `option()` methods are now deprecated, in favor of new `get()` and
    `getOrElse()` methods that are modeled after their `Map` counterparts.
  - Added a new `getSection()` method that returns an `Option[Section]`.

Version 0.4.2:

* Updated to [SBT][] version 0.7.3.
* Added `withDownloadedFile()` to `grizzled.net.url`, to execute a block on
  a downloaded URL.
* The `grizzled.io.implicits` module has been replaced by individual 
  modules, for more granular scope control (e.g.,
  `grizzled.io.RichInputStream`, `grizzled.io.RichReader`)
* The `grizzled.io` package has been split into individual source files.
* Added new `grizzled.io.SourceReader` class that wraps a `scala.io.Source`
  inside a `java.io.Reader`.

[SBT]: http://code.google.com/p/simple-build-tool

Version 0.4.1:

* Fixed inadvertent bug in `grizzled.cmd` command handling, when commands
  span multiple lines.

[sbt]: http://code.google.com/p/simple-build-tool

Version 0.4:

* Added `grizzled.collection.GrizzledLinearSeq` and related implicits, as a
  place to put additional methods for sequences.
* Added `grizzled.collection.GrizzledLinearSeq.columnarize()`, which takes a
  sequence (e.g., a list), converts its contents to strings, and returns a
  single string with the sequence's contents arranged in columns.
* Rearranged the locations of various implicit functions, so callers can
  have finer-grained control over which ones are in scope.
* `grizzled.editline.EditLine` now shows its completions in columnar format.
* Added `BlockCommandHandler` to `grizzled`.cmd, to handle commands consisting
  of blocks of lines between a start and end line.
* Added `HiddenCommandHandler` to `grizzled.cmd`, allowing special commands 
  that are not displayed in the help.
* Changed EOF handling in `grizzled.cmd` slightly.
* Added `createTemporaryDirectory()` and `withTemporaryDirectory()` to
  `grizzled.file.util` module.
* Added `isEmpty` to `grizzled.file.GrizzledFile` (which can be implicitly
  converted to and from `java.io.File`).
* Fixed problem with prefix handling in `grizzled.string.WordWrapper`.
* Now uses [SBT][sbt] 0.7.2 to build from source.

[sbt]: http://code.google.com/p/simple-build-tool

Version 0.3.1:

`grizzled.cmd` changes:

* "history" command now uses the syntax `history [-n] [regex]`
   where *n* is the maximum number of entries to show, and *regex* is a
   regular expression to filter history entries.

* Some commands starting with "." were being incorrectly limited to a
  single character (e.g., ".r", but not ".read").

* General clean-up and bug fixing in the "redo command" handler.

* `CommandHandler` classes can now exempt themselves from the history.

* The `RedoCommandHandler` (which handles the "r" and "!" commands) now
  exempts itself from the history.

Version 0.3:

* Converted to Scala 2.8.0
* Now must be compiled with [SBT][sbt] version 0.7.0 or better.
* Fixed tail call optimization problem in `grizzled.io.RichInputStream`.
  Thanks to Claudio Bley (*cbley /at/ av-test.de*)
* Added grizzled.parsing.MarkdownParser, for parsing Markdown documents.
  (Currently uses the [Showdown][showdown] Javascript library, via 
  [Mozilla Rhino][rhino].)
* `grizzled.cmd.HelpHandler` now supports a ".help" alias.
* Added `grizzled.util.withCloseable` control structure.
* The grizzled.readline API now uses the [Java EditLine][javaeditline]
  wrapper for the Unix EditLine library, instead of the one in
  Java-Readline. implementation, instead of the one in Java-Readline.
  Completion handling is more reliable with the Java Editline
  implementation.
* grizzled.cmd now tries to load EditLine first.

[sbt]: http://code.google.com/p/simple-build-tool
[javaeditline]: http://www.clapper.org/software/java/javaeditline/
[showdown]: http://attacklab.net/showdown/
[rhino]: http://www.mozilla.org/rhino/

Version 0.2:

* In `grizzled.cmd`, the default handler for the "help" command now does
  tab completion on the existing commands.
* Changed the way `grizzled.readline` exposes completion context. Instead
  of exposing a cursor, it exposes a tokenized list, with a special
  `Cursor` token. This approach fits better with Scala's pattern matching.
* `grizzled.collection.MultiIterator` is now covariant, not invariant.
* Miscellaneous internal changes where `yield` is used.
* Changed license to New BSD License.

Version 0.1:

* Initial release.
